---
tags:
    - Activities

image: "images/og-images/thanks.jpg"

ogImage:
    title: "Thank you!"
    imageUrl: "https://staabm.github.io/staabm.svg"
    fileName: "thanks"
---

Hey supporter :).

First let me say thank you.
It means at lot to me that people like you see value in my open source work.

Behind every bullet point with my name on it in release notes of PHPStan, PHPUnit, Rector is a story.
I wouldn't be able to dive into all the necessary details to figure them out and contribute improvements, without your support.

Over the course of 2024 I was able to fix ~69 reported problems while contributing ~235 pull requests to PHPStan alone.
This work is necessary to make the enduser experience as frictionless as possible.
PHPStan gets a better understanding of your code, provides less false positives and is able to point out problems it wouldn't recognize otherwise.
When not working on features I have an eye on performance bottlenecks to make the process more efficient and you waste less time waiting.

I can share similar stories when working on PHPUnit or Rector.
Iron out problems is the magic sauce which keep the PHP open source ecosystem alive and useful.

If you got curious, please have a look at my [2024 contribution summary](https://staabm.github.io/2024/12/11/contribution-summary-2024.html).

Besides all the implementation work, I also had the pleasure to meet with the people behind these projects in person in 2024 for the very first time.
Meeting in person with people you have worked with for multiple years remote only is always exciting.
Thanks to your financial support I was able to attend the PHP Days in Dresden to meet Ondrej Mirtes (PHPStan inventor),
and later on I had a PHPUnit Codesprint with Sebastian Bergmann (PHPUnit inventor) in Munich.

Coming together and spending some time together also helped to improve our teamwork for future collaborations.

For 2025 there is still a lot of stuff todo and I don't plan to stop contributing to the mentioned projects.
I have plans to join a few PHP conferences/meetups and would love to see you there.
Have a look at my blog to get the latest news about my open source work and please spread the word.

If you need a helping hand with one of those tools with our projects, feel free to get in contact.
In addition, I am still looking for more sponsors - especially from companies which use above mentioned tools.
I would love to reduce a few hours a week of my primary job and push the PHP open source ecosystem onto the next level.

Thanks again!

Markus
